Bayesian methods combine complex data

In this article, in the PCORI mission, addresses questions about health care from the patients’ perspective and make it easier for clinicians and patients to answer clinical questions using modern digital tools that incorporate the experiences of prior patients and  translate it to inform the decision at hand, taking into account each patient’s unique circumstances. 

Problem: Medical data includes unleashed health data, from DNA sequences to functional images of the brain to patient-reported outcomes and also the electronic health record captures patient’s sequence of health measurements, diagnoses, and treatments.

Solution: The Bayesian methods combine complex data to produce predictions about an individual patient's health status, trajectory, and likely benefits and harms of interventions. The study tested the model on 3 case studies to (1) estimate the frequency with which various pathogens cause children’s pneumonia and predict which pathogen is likely to be causing a particular child’s pneumonia given her or his clinical data, potentially reducing unnecessary use of antibiotics; (2) infer whether a prostate cancer is indolent or aggressive for a patient under active surveillance; and (3) characterize the variation in multiple, time-varying symptoms of major mental disorders, including schizophrenia and depression, and then use this knowledge to provide patient-specific estimates of past and, likely, future trajectories.

Method: Bayesian hierarchical regression for longitudinal patient data
The study developed a bayesian hierarchical model for possibly multivariate longitudinal data that predict the health status, trajectory, and likely intervention effects for each member of a clinical population. The inputs are the predictor variables (X and R), health outcome measurements (Y), a prior distribution for the unknown health status (η), and the model structure that ties the observations to the unknowns. The model produces an estimate of the posterior distribution of the health status ηit for individual i at every time t. The model produces an estimate of the posterior distribution of the trend in health status for each value of the predictor variables that can include the treatment. The model produces an estimate of the marginal distribution of the regression coefficients; each coefficient measures how the outcome, health status, is associated with its predictor variable (R, X).

Results:
The bayesian hierarchical model is adaptable because (1) it is a likelihood-based approach. In a larger sample, the likelihood dominates the prior distribution for many key parameters such as regression coefficients. (2) use of priors (prior laboratory and clinical trials data) provide a reasonable range for the assay sensitivities that, once imposed through the prior assumptions, make the model identifiable (3) Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) used to estimate the posterior distributions to avoid missing data and complex outcome measurements. Posterior distributions are easily understood by clinicians and patients and are easily visualized to communicate predictions of health status, trajectories, or likely intervention benefits.

Ref:
Zeger, S. L., Wu, Z., Coley, Y., Fojo, A. T., Carter, B., O’Brien, K., Zandi, P., Cooke, M., Carey, V., Crainiceanu, C., Muscelli, J., Gherman, A., & Mekosh, J. (2020). Using a Bayesian Approach to Predict Patients’ Health and Response to Treatment. https://doi.org/10.25302/09.2020.ME.140820318
